[release-v2.1] [DOC] Update metrics generator doc and add best practices (#2569)
grafana/tempo: docs/sources/tempo/metrics-generator/active-series.md

---
aliases:
- /docs/tempo/latest/metrics-generator/active-series
title: Active series
menuTitle: Active series
description: Learn about active series and how they are calculated.
weight: 100
---

# Active series

An active series is a time series that receives new data points or samples. When you stop writing new datapoints to a time series, shortly afterwards it is no longer considered active.

Metrics generated by Tempo's metrics generator can provide both RED (Rate/Error/Duration) metrics and interdependency graphs between services in a trace (the Service Graph functionality in Grafana).
These capabilities rely on a set of generated span metrics and service metrics.

> Any spans that are ingested by Tempo could potentially create up to 13 metrics. However, this doesn't mean that every time a span is ingested that a new active series is created.

Author: ```suggestion
Any spans that are ingested by Tempo can create many metric series. However, this doesn't mean that every time a span is ingested that a new active series is created.
```
